What is Next.js?
Well, I think in order
to understand Next.js,
you really gotta to understand
some of its bigger dependencies.
And the biggest one I would have to
say is obviously gonna be React.
So all of you might know React, but if you
don't, I like to think of React as not
a framework,
it's actually more of a view library.
If you think of React by itself,
if you just npm install react,
you can't really build a full,
feature rich application with just React.
You're gonna have to install
a few more things, a router,
you gotta figure out how to do styling.
And we all know there's 1,000
ways to do CSS in React.
You're gonna have to build a build system,
unless you get a CLI or
something like that, or some boilerplate.
There's just a lot that you have to do,
whether it's easy for
you to do with the CLI,
or you do manually,
you still have to decide on
what approach you're gonna do.
So you still have to make a lot of
decisions regardless of how easy
those decisions are to implement.
And that's kinda how React is.
So Next.js is what I call a framework
framework, or a app ready framework.
Next.js is a full stack framework.
As in, it not only lets you build
front end applications, but
it also helps you build out APIs,
which is really interesting.
And it uses React as its view library.
So when you start actually putting stuff
on the page, you'll be using React.
And that's how Next basically uses React.
So it's built on top of that.
You'll see other frameworks use other
libraries like Vue, there's some that use
Angular and even Gatsby's another
framework that's built on top of React.
They all decided to do that because
React is a really good framework.
So it seems like a really good idea.
But yeah, they're very similar.
So that means all the stuff you know about
React and all the knowledge that you've
gained there,
it's gonna transfer over to Next.js.
So it's not like something completely
new and you got to reset how you think.
Nope, it's gonna be everything
gonna be carried over.
You're just gonna learn some new
conventions and new opinions and
stuff like that.
So talking about those opinions, and
that's basically what Next.js is.
It's a whole bunch of opinions and
conventions built on top
of the React framework.
And this team has a history of
building tons of quality applications.
The team at Vercel are the creators of
Next.js, it used to be called Zeit.
They're Vercel now.
And they created this framework, and they
basically just taken all their opinions,
all the stuff the community's
been doing for years and
just decided that here's the way that we
feel that everyone is gonna do it anyway.
So we're gonna bake it into this thing,
call it a framework, and
just give it to you.
And it actually just makes sense,
because who wants to go set up server-side
rendering and CSS modules every
single time they make a React app?
You probably don't, which is why you
reach for some type of boilerplate or
something like that,
because you just don't want to do it.
Well, this is the next level of that.
You can think of this as boilerplate,
automated or computed, so you can actually
work with it and not boilerplate as in
like, it's just React, but it's just
a starter reference, but it's really
nothing else other than just a starter.
So pretty dope framework.
So, here are some of the highlights
that you get for free with Next.js.
You get a developer build system,
which I don't know,
these days if people make build
systems from scratch anymore.
But, when I was learning to write code,
I had to make a Webpack
configs from scratch [LAUGH].
It was crazy saying it,
because I don't think anyone does that.
They just don't make dev builds anymore,
it's just free now.
But yeah, they give you one that's very
good and you almost never have to touch.
You also get a production one,
which is the same.
You get pre rendering.
So things like server side rendering,
build time.
And then also like static.
And we'll talk a lot about those things
if you don't know what I'm talking about
there, we're definitely gonna get there.
You get routing for free, so
you don't have to figure out what router
to install and how to use it and
how to set it up.
Because we all know the router ecosystem
in React is all over the place right now.
So you know what I'm talking about?
And then API routes.
Yeah, like I said,
this is a full stack framework, so
you can actually develop
APIs in this framework.
Which is very reminiscent of back in
the day when Node first came out and
everyone made single page apps
with their Express app, and
they did express.static, and
they would just serve the index.html, and
they would have their Angular app,
the MEAN stack.
And then we realized that that was
a bad idea because we need CDNs.
So it's like that, but
they don't live together and
you still have CDN and
all this flexibility.
So you get that same experience of having
it colocated, but you get the really good
experience of having everything
performant, which we didn't have before.
Unless you threw like Nginx in front
of it and all this crazy stuff.
But now, nope,
we get all this stuff for free now.
So really dope.
Always hear, well,
what about create-react-app?
Doesn't create-react-app
do a lot of this stuff?
Absolutely, create-react-app
does do a lot of this stuff and
it also has a lot of
opinions baked into it.
But create-react-app is
basically boilerplate, right?
It doesn't add any new
functionality to React.
It basically just takes a build system,
basically, the build system,
it takes a build system and
it says, here, you go.
We gave you a really nice build system,
which is actually really good.
And we'll manage it for you.
And then you can go ahead and
build your app.
And that's what you get for free.
And then when you start making your app,
it's just React.
There are no conventions or anything
that's baked into create-react-app
when it comes to actually
writing your application.
So cuz it's just regular
React at that point,
you still have to figure out things
like a router and stuff like that.
There's still some
decisions you have to make.
So I would say it's probably
the best boilerplate you can do.
And even now sometimes, in some cases,
I would recommend using
create-react-app over Next.js.
And you'll see in a minute
where I think that's true.
But no, it's not like Next.js,
you don't get server side rendering and
API routes and things like that.
So it's not a complete framework,
it's just really good conventions and
opinions baked into a build system
that you can actually eject and
customize if you want to as well.
And then you're not even inside
create-react-app anymore at that point,
you're just a React app.
And then what about Gatsby?
So I would say Gatsby is definitely more
similar to Nest.js than create-react-app.
They're very, Gatsby and
Next.js app are actually very similar.
I would say Gatsby has conventions
built into it as well and
even stronger conventions, specifically
around how it wants to do data fetching.
It has this thing called a content mesh,
where you can pull in data from tons
of sources and aggregate them to a single
GraphQL schema, and then that way
it's just unified and type checked and
ready to go in your application.
And that experience is really nice.
But there's a lot of overhead there,
you have to know GraphQL in
order to use Gatsby or
at least to get the best from it.
You don't have to use GraphQL,
you can definitely not use it.
But then I think you kind of defeat
the point of it using Gatsby in
the first place.
So there's a lot of stuff there.
Also, Gatsby doesn't have the ability to
create API routes and stuff like that.
It's not a full stack framework, but
it does offer a lot of the same stuff as
Next.js, like client-side routing,
static generation, things like that.
And the tooling is really good too.
So they're both very similar.
And I would also say that Gatsby
has better support when it
comes to doing things statically,
like sourcing content,
like building documentation,
stuff like that.
But that also depends on how comfortable
you are with GraphQL and things like that.
But that's not to say that Next.js doesn't
support that stuff, because it does.
And their support is getting better.
So it really just depends,
and we'll talk about that.
So yeah, when to use Next.js?
So my general guide to when to use
Next.js when making a React app.
I'd like to just go through this little
list of different things like that.
One tip here though, is just never
start a React app from scratch.
There's just so much out there these days,
I just don't understand why anyone would
ever just make a React app from scratch.
If you think your case is that specific
and it's that unique that there's nothing
out there that's gonna help you and
you have to do it from scratch,
you're lying to yourself,
because that's just not true.
Eventually you're just gonna converge,
you're eventually just gonna go look at
the source code for create-react-app and
look at their Webpack config and
you're gonna copy it.
That's what you're gonna do,
because [LAUGH] that's eventually
where you're leading to.
So learn from the people before you and
use these conventions,
just don't create from scratch.
Okay, so do you only need a single
page app, then use create-react-app.
Single page app, as in,
I'm only doing client side routing.
I don't care about server side rendering.
I don't care about API routes.
This is a single page app,
it's hidden behind a paywall, that's it,
I would say yeah, you probably
should just use create-react-app.
Although Next.js and
Gatsby will work for that as well.
They're not built for that.
And you have to turn off and opt out of a
lot of things to be able to, for it to be
a single page app, create-react-app
is just a single page app.
So just use that.
Do you need a static site like a blog
that's also a single page application?
Use Next.js or Gatsby.
And this is gonna come down to preference,
how comfortable are you with GraphQL?
Is there a specific plugin that one of
these things has that you really have to
take advantage of?
You know,
are you sourcing from a CMS or not?
Does that CMS have support for
this framework?
Different things like that.
I think that's what it's gonna come down
to both of these work pretty well there.
Do you need server side rendering and
API and all the, above then yeah,
you're gonna use Next.js.
Because it's the only one that does that.
So, yeah, those are my opinions
on when to use this framework.
And pretty much these days, I use Next.js
for all my React stuff, except for
when it comes to really heavy static
sites, for now, I've been using Gatsby.
But even Next.js is figuring
out ways to improve, and
they have a lot of stuff coming out.
But I almost never use create-react-app,
because I just don't build
single page apps anymore.
And, or I guess if I'm building a library,
I'll just use a library starter.
But that's not an app, so yeah.
>> Databases with Next.js?
>> All right, somebody asking
that question knows Next.js.
So yeah,
we're gonna [LAUGH] get to that, and
yes you can use databases with Next.js,
because Next.js is a full stack framework.
So, anything you can do server side,
you can pretty much do with Next.js.
>> There's questions about
the microservice versus monolith.
Did you mention anything with that?
>> I didn't mention anything about
microservices and monoliths, and
I'm not sure if the question is geared
towards like back end microservices and
monoliths, or are we talking?
I know what they're talking about,
they're talking about, hey, normally,
the convention has been, we'll have our
repo over here for our single page app.
We'll have our repo over here for our API.
And that's kind of how we do it.
But now it seems like Next.js
is this huge monolith.
In fact, kind of what we avoided.
And that's kind of what I was hinting at.
Actually it's not, right,
the code lives together, absolutely.
But depending on where you deploy this and
how you deploy it,
they are completely separated and
handled very nicely through React.
And that has a lot to do with the
server-side rendering and how that works.
And it also has to do with just
how they built the framework and
how it handles the APIs and
stuff like that.
So, basically, if you had
a traditional monolith with Express,
that's not a bad thing.
The only problem with that is when you
don't put a CDN in front of it and
cache those static assets and be smart
about it, Next.js does that for you.
So things are always cached, things are
always fast, things are always available.
Things are always pre rendered.
So you get the benefit of having that
really nice static experience that
you've been doing for years.
But you also get that really good
development experience of just having
everything colocated.
So you don't really give up anything
by using something like Next.js.
So it's a little different than what you
would traditionally think of a monolith.
>> Authentication,
are you gonna get into that?
>> I am not gonna get into authentication,
because it's not specific to Next.js.
The way you would handle authentication in
Next.js is the same way you would handle
it pretty much in any React or
Node application.
I could talk about where you might do it,
but it doesn't change anything for
this framework, it's not specific to it.
>> You're supposed to
pitch your other course.
>> Yeah, so there's another [LAUGH]
there's an advanced Next.js
course where I'll dive a little
deeper into some of those tactics.
>> Or your API design in Node kind
of covers authentication as well.
>> Yeah, API design in Node
does cover authentication.
Yeah, I think I linked to that course
somewhere in here, but not for
authentication.
But yeah, you can look at that
course to figure out how you can do
authentication in Node, and
that carries over pretty well for Next.js.